The core problem is that if every day we calculate, say weekly returns,
then the weekly return on a given day will be correlated with the weekly returns
of the day's surrounding it because they draw on data from the same time period.
This is a problem for lots of Machine Learning models which frequently rely on
the assumption that each data row is independent and identically distributed, or IID.
In the case of random forests,
if the bootstrap samples for
individual decision trees are made on highly overlapping labels,
then observations within the bag are likely to be similar to each other,
and also similar to observations outside the bag.
The individual decision trees are likely to be similar.
The forest error rate depends on
the correlation between predictions made by the trees in the forest.
If the algorithm is trained on correlated rows,
it will produce a forest of correlated trees,
and this will increase the rate of classification error made by the forest.
Furthermore, because the in-bag samples are similar to the out-of-bag ones,
the out-of-bag error rate is likely to be inflated.
In the next few videos,
we'll talk about a few of the approaches you can take to
mitigate this problem if you're using a random forest model.